1. Inspiration
----------------------------------
I decided to create a new birthday reminder desktop applet because I just could not find
any birthday reminder software out there that would also support namedays.
In my part of Europe, nameday celebrations are equally important as birthdays
(sometimes even more, because unlike for birthdays, everyone knows when you celebrate
your nameday :)

To make the plasmoid usable for the rest of the world, the whole nameday stuff can be
turned completely off. This way you can use the plasmoid just like any other birthday
reminder that supports birthdays and anniversaries.

Internal logic of the plasmoid is inspired by the K Birthday Reminder, while for the
visualisation I learned many tricks by studying the Public Transport.


2. Features
----------------------------------
2.1 General
The plasmoid shows a sorted list of coming birthdays, namedays and anniversaries.
These events are shown in a table-like view, so you can easily select or reorder the
columns you want to see.

2.2 Contact data source
Contact information is taken from the KDE Address Book or a selected Akonadi collection 
(e.g. Personal Contacts on the local computer, Gmail contacts - requires Akonadi googledata 
resource, etc.). In the future I also plan to add support for Mozilla Thunderbird Address Book.

2.3 Contact filtering
Plasmoid allows to limit the set of contacts, for which the events are shown. Filtering options
(as well as data source itself) can be set individually for several instances of the plasmoid
(e.g. one plasmoid showing the family contacts, other plasmoid showing business contacts, etc.)

2.3.1 No filtering
By default, all contacts from the selected collection are taken into account (given that their
birthday, nameday and anniversary can be determined). 

2.3.2 Filtering by category
If you want to show only the contacts belonging to the selected Category (as shown in kaddressbook),
select the option "Filter by contact category" and type the category name (e.g. "Family") into the
"Match value" field.

2.3.3 Filtering by custom field (e.g. Gmail groups)
If you want to show only the contacts that have a particular value in one or more custom fields,
select the option "Filter by the custom field" or "Filter by multiple custom fields (prefix)" and 
type the custom field name or the prefix common for the group of fields. In the "Match value" input, 
type the value that must be matched by all contacts to be shown in the list.
Example (Gmail groups):
Akonadi googledata resource currently maps the Gmail groups into custom fields called
"Google-groupMembership_<group-number>", so you need to use a prefix "Google-groupMembership_".
Instead of the group name seen in the web interface (e.g. "My contacts"), the resorce currently
only reports the group Id, e.g. "http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/name.surname%40gmail.com/base/6".
Type such id into the "Match value" field (you can see the values in kaddressbook under custom fields)
and find out which Id you need to use for the group you want to select.

2.4 Nameday options
2.4.1 Determining contact namedays
1. Defining a nameday date for every contact. Year will be ignored, contact's age is
shown based on his birthday. You can use the Anniversary field if you prefer namedays
over anniversaries, or you can define your own custom date field.
2. Looking up of your contact's given name in the country-specific nameday calendar. 
This option makes sense if the names are listed once per year and the your contacts have given names 
from your country's calendar
The options 1 and 2 can be combined; in case that the nameday date is defined for a particular
contact, it is always prefered over automatically generated nameday using the contact's given name.

2.4.2 Aggregation
Namedays can optionally be aggregated by name (one line standing for all contacts that
celebrate their nameday on the particular day) -> this is especially useful for frequently
used names such as Peter, etc. In such case, individual contacts can be 'unrolled' 
by double-clicking on the name entry. Names shown for aggregated nameday entries are taken
from the selectable country-specific nameday calendar.


3. Installation
----------------------------------
Unpack the tarball, go to its directory and execute
./install-birthdaylist.sh

If the build and installation succeeds, the plasmoid should show up in the add widgets
dialog. If not, please re-login to KDE or execute:
kquitapp plasma-desktop
kstart plasma-desktop

The plasmoid can be removed by executing
uninstall-birthdaylist.sh

To build the plasmoid, you will need development packages for KDE PIM, KDE4, Qt4 and cmake.
Exact package names are distribution-specific.

Akonadi support can be added by executing
./install-support-akonadi.sh
after having already installed the basic plasmoid package. In order to start using Akonadi inputs
in the already running plasmoid, please relogin or restart Plasma from the command line.

Akonadi support can be removed by executing
./uninstall-support-akonadi.sh


4. Troubleshooting
----------------------------------
4.1 Adding a custom nameday calendar
If you want to add a custom nameday calendar, create a new text file under the data engine
installation directory, e.g. /usr/share/apps/plasma_engine_birthdaylist/namedaydefs/
with the name "namedays_<langcode>.txt, where <langcode> is replaced by your language.
The first line in this file contains a human-readable name for the language, remaining lines
contain name entries. Use already existing files to see the format. After the restart of plasma
you should see the new calendar.

4.2 KAddressBook
KAddressBook was significantly changed in KDE 4.4. Older address books located under
~/.kde4/share/apps/kabc/std.vcf should, however, be working fine.
In case that you don't use the KDE address book yet and want to create it new on KDE 4.4,
open kaddressbook and follow the steps below:
- Select File - New - Add Address Book
- Choose KDE Address Book (traditional)
- In the wizard, press Next, select File, press Next,
  accept default option with std.vcf, press Finish.
- the contacts you will be adding to this address book should appear in the plasmoid.
To see custom fields in KAddressBook, you need to upgrade to version 4.4.7.

4.3 Gmail contacts over Akonadi
Please have in mind that Akonadi support is experimental. Akonadi has only been fully enabled
in the KDE Address Book with the 4.4 release. To see your Gmail contacts, you need to install
an additional package (Akonadi googledata resource), the name may vary between distributions.
This resource currently provides the names, birthdays and email addresses for your contacts.
Assignment of contacts into groups is also provided, but instead of a human-readable group name
(e.g. "My contacts"), just a group Id is available
(e.g. "http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/name.surname%40gmail.com/base/6").
I have also experienced that the group assignments are not completely available: some contacts
do not have the group assignments in kaddressbook, although they have them in the web interface.


5. Contributions
----------------------------------
Any feedback, ideas, suggestions or contributions are highly appreciated. Your support is
especially needed for internationalization and providing of additional nameday calendars.
